RC: Enhance throughput section (#1043)
redis/docs: content/operate/rc/databases/configuration/sizing.md

---

> Title: Size a Redis Cloud Database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: Size a Redis Cloud database
```
I don't think Database is part of the product name so in sentence case this wouldn't be capitalized

alwaysopen: false
categories:
- docs
- operate
- rc
description: Describes sizing considerations for your Redis Cloud database, including throughput and dataset size.
linkTitle: Sizing
weight: $weight
---

## Dataset size {#dataset-size}

> The dataset size of a database is a part of the full memory limit for the database. The memory limit represents the maximum amount of memory for the database, which includes data values, keys, module data, and overhead for specific features.  High availability features, such as replication and Active-Active,  increase memory consumption, so in those cases your dataset size and memory limit will be different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dataset size of a database is a part of the full memory limit for the database. The memory limit represents the maximum amount of memory for the database, which includes data values, keys, module data, and overhead for specific features.  High availability features, such as replication and Active-Active,  increase memory consumption, so your dataset size and memory limit will be different.
```

- [Active-Active]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/configuration/active-active-redis" >}}) also doubles memory consumption and the effect is cumulative with replication's impact. Since Active-Active requires replication to be turned on, the memory limit impact can be as large as four times (4x) the original data size.

- [Advanced capabilities]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/configuration/advanced-capabilities" >}}) also consume memory. For search databases, consider index size when you size your database. See [Search and query sizing]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/configuration/advanced-capabilities#search-and-query-sizing" >}}) for more info.

Memory limits in Redis Cloud are subject to the same considerations as Redis Enterprise Software; to learn more, see [Database memory limits]({{< relref "/operate/rs/databases/memory-performance/memory-limit" >}}).

## Throughput

> Throughput is the amount of operations a database can handle over a certain period of time. For Redis Cloud databases, throughput is defined in operations per second (ops/sec).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughput is the number of operations a database can handle over a certain period of time. For Redis Cloud databases, throughput is defined in operations per second (ops/sec).
```

For a Redis Cloud Pro subscription, you define throughput for a database when you create it. For a Redis Cloud Essentials subscription, your maximum throughput depends on your plan. 

> We use this setting to guide the allocation of compute power and network bandwidth, ensuring your database can handle the expected workload. However, the throughput specified is not guaranteed - actual throughput may be higher or lower depending on your workload and database configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use this setting to guide the allocation of compute power and network bandwidth, ensuring your database can handle the expected workload. However, the throughput specified is not guaranteed - actual throughput may vary depending on your workload and database configuration.
```

Author: Noam wants to specifically mention higher or lower here.

Memory limits in Redis Cloud are subject to the same considerations as Redis Enterprise Software; to learn more, see [Database memory limits]({{< relref "/operate/rs/databases/memory-performance/memory-limit" >}}).

## Throughput

Throughput is the amount of operations a database can handle over a certain period of time. For Redis Cloud databases, throughput is defined in operations per second (ops/sec).

For a Redis Cloud Pro subscription, you define throughput for a database when you create it. For a Redis Cloud Essentials subscription, your maximum throughput depends on your plan. 

We use this setting to guide the allocation of compute power and network bandwidth, ensuring your database can handle the expected workload. However, the throughput specified is not guaranteed - actual throughput may be higher or lower depending on your workload and database configuration.

### Throughput factors and variability

The following factors can affect your database's throughput:

> - **Request size**: Smaller requests (under 3KB) consume less network bandwidth and may result in more operations per second than requested, while larger requests may result in fewer operations per second.

Reviewer 2: @cmiles, do you think it's enough that under 3KB, you might get more operations? the parenthesis location makes the sentence not that clear.

Author: I think it's clear enough. @mich-elle-luna can you sanity check me on this?

> - **Command complexity**: Simple commands, like `GET` and `SET`, are faster and require fewer resources, whereas more complex commands involve more processing time and can reduce throughput.

Reviewer 2: @cmilesb, there is a documentation section in the software documentation that explains the complexity of each command type. Let's add a reference from here.

Reviewer 2: https://redis.io/docs/latest/commands/

Author: ```suggestion
- **Command complexity**: Simple commands, like `GET` and `SET`, are faster and require fewer resources, whereas more complex commands involve more processing time and can reduce throughput. See the [Command list]({{< relref "/commands" >}}) to see which commands are more complex than others.
```

- **Replication**: Using [multi-zone replication]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/configuration/high-availability" >}}) affects throughput as each write operation is executed asynchronously in each zone.
- **Security**: Some security options, such as [transport layer security]({{< relref "/operate/rc/security/database-security/tls-ssl" >}}), may affect throughput.

> - **Number of client connections**: The number of client connections affects throughput. Increasing or decreasing the number of client connections can result in higher or lower throughput.

Reviewer 2: @cmilesb there are additional factors like pipeline, backup period that might also affect it. Maybe worth writing ".. and more" somewhere

### Optimize throughput

Here are some things to keep in mind for optimizing throughput:
- Optimize capacity planning and sizing of your Redis Cloud databases to meet your app performance requirements.
- Benchmark your app to understand what latency expectations are required, and adjust throughput accordingly.
- Test and monitor your app's performance and adjust the set ops/sec based on how if performs in real-world conditions.

> - If your average request size is larger than 3KB, set your throughput higher than expected. 

Reviewer 2: @cmilesb, it's too demandi, and we are only talking about the 'higher than 3 KB'. I think we should be more gentle - like 'consider setting ... in cases where'.. 
And also to write something about the opposite (less than 3KB).
If we write about the 3KB here, maybe we don't need in the previous section where we explain the factors that impacts TP

> - If you consistently notice that throughput is higher than expected, consider lowering your set ops/sec to reduce costs. 

Reviewer 2: @cmilesb, there is not such thing where the user notice the TP is higher than expected. The user is the one who sends the requests. Maybe you can write something like - Adjust ops/sec settings based on testing and application performance feedback.

- Track the slow logs using the [`SLOWLOG` command]({{< relref "/commands/slowlog" >}}) or the **Slowlog** tab on the [database screen]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/view-edit-database" >}}).
- Use [pipelining]({{< relref "/develop/use/pipelining" >}}) and [concurrent connections]({{< relref "/develop/reference/clients" >}}) effectively to optimize throughput and latency.
- Search databases have their own throughput requirements. See [Search and query sizing]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/configuration/advanced-capabilities#search-and-query-sizing" >}}) for more info.

> ### Frequently asked questions

Reviewer 2: @cmilesb, the seperation between the questions looks a bit odd. Looks to me like a CCS mistake or something. Maybe we should bold the question or bullet each questions

#### Can my workload exceed the configured throughput?

Yes, many workloads perform better than expected, especially with optimized configurations and ideal conditions.

#### Why is my application getting less throughput than what I set?

Factors like high connection counts, complex commands, large payloads, and network limitations can affect throughput. Test and adjust based on your application’s needs. 

#### How do I know the optimal throughput for my application?

Start with the expected ops/sec. Most of the time, it’s more than enough. For an average request size of less than 3KB, we suggest specifying lower ops/sec than expected to reduce costs. For request sizes higher than 3 KB, we suggest specifying higher ops/sec than your target. Benchmarking your application under production-like conditions will help you find the best configuration.

#### How does network bandwidth impact throughput?

> Insufficient bandwidth can bottleneck performance, especially with large request sizes. Ensure your network setup supports your workload demands.

Reviewer 2: Let's erase the "Ensure your network setup supports your workload demands." The custoemr can't rally do it
